# Research Notes
- Goal: Web scraping의 본문 수집 후, 관련 위키 링크 1~2개 더 방문해서 자료 모으기
- Started: 2026-05-05T01:03:17


---

## Web scraping - Wikipedia
- URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_scraping
- 시각: 2026-05-05T01:03:22

Jump to content
Main menu
Search
Donate
Create account
Log in
Contents hide
(Top)
History
Techniques
Toggle Techniques subsection
Human copy-and-paste
Text pattern matching
HTTP programming
HTML parsing
DOM parsing
Vertical aggregation
Semantic annotation recognizing
Computer vision web-page analysis
Legal issues
Toggle Legal issues subsection
United States
European Union
Australia
India
Methods to prevent web scraping
See also
References
Web scraping
22 languages
Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history
Tools
Appearance hide
Text
Small
Standard
Large
Width
Standard
Wide
Color
Automatic
Light
Dark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For broader coverage of this topic, see Data scraping.
"Web scraper" redirects here. For websites that scrape content, see Scraper site.
	
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Web scraping" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (April 2023) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

Web scraping, web harvesting, or web data extraction is data scraping used for extracting data from websites.[1] Web scraping software may directly access the World Wide Web using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol or a web browser. While web scraping can be done manually by a software user, the term typically refers to automated processes implemented using a bot or web crawler. It is a form of copying in which specific data is gathered and copied from the web, typically into a central local database or spreadsheet, for later retrieval or analysis.

Scraping a web page involves fetching it and then extracting data from it. Fetching is the downloading of a page (which a browser does when a user views a page). Therefore, web crawling is a main component of web scraping, to fetch pages for later processing. Having fetched, extraction can take place. The content of a page may be parsed, searched and reformatted, and its data copied into a spreadsheet or loaded into a database. Web scrapers typically take something out of a page, to make use of it for another purpose somewhere else. An example would be finding and copying names and telephone numbers, companies and their URLs, or e-mail addresses to a list (contact scraping). Another example is collecting competitors product prices for marketing purposes, which can involve gathering large-scale pricing datasets from e-commerce websites and analysing them using data science techniques such as trend analysis, predictive modelling, and competitive benchmarking.

Contact scraping is a type of web scraping that is used as a component of applications used for web indexing, web mining and data mining, online price change monitoring and price comparison, product review scraping (to watch the competition), gathering real estate listings, weather data monitoring, website change detection, research, tracking online presence and reputation, web mashup, and web data integration.

Web pages are built using text-based markup languages (HTML and XHTML), and frequently contain a wealth of useful data in text form. However, most web pages are designed for human end-users and not for ease of automated use. As a result, specialized tools and software have been developed to facilitate the scraping of web pages. Web scraping applications include market research, price comparison, content monitoring and artificial intelligence. Businesses rely on web scraping services to efficiently gather and utilize this data.

Newer forms of web scraping involve monitoring data feeds from web servers. For example, JSON is commonly used as a transport mechanism between the client and the web server.

There are methods that some websites use to prevent web scraping, such as detecting and disallowing bots from crawling (viewing) their pages. In response, web scraping systems use techniques involving DOM parsing, computer vision and natural language processing to simulate human-like browsing to enable gathering web page content for offline parsing.

History[edit]

After the birth of the World Wide Web in 1989, the first web robot,[2] World Wide Web Wanderer, was created in June 1993, which was intended only to measure the size of the web.

In December 1993, the first crawler-based web search engine, JumpStation, was launched.[citation needed] As there were fewer websites available on the web, search engines at that time used to rely on human administrators to collect and format links. In comparison, Jump Station was the first WWW search engine to rely on a web robot.

In 2000, the first Web API and API crawler were created. In 2000, Salesforce and eBay launched their own API, with which programmers could access and download some of the data available to the public.[3] Since then, many websites offer web APIs for people to access their public database.

Techniques[edit]
	
This section contains instructions or advice. Wikipedia is not a guidebook; please help rewrite such content to be encyclopedic or move it to Wikiversity, Wikibooks, or Wikivoyage. (October 2025)

Data extraction techniques range from manual collection to sophisticated automated systems. Advanced methods analyze the underlying structure of web pages to transform unstructured content into a machine-readable format. These techniques utilize text processing or artificial intelligence, aligning with the technical goals of the Semantic Web.

Human copy-and-paste[edit]

The simplest form of web scraping is manual copying and pasting of data from a web page into a text file or spreadsheet. This approach requires no technical tools and can be used when automated scraping is blocked by website restrictions or when human judgment is necessary to interpret complex content. However, manual scraping is highly inefficient for large datasets, as it is time-consuming, prone to human error, and mentally exhausting. For this reason, it is generally considered impractical compared to automated methods, except in cases where automation is not feasible.

Text pattern matching[edit]

A simple yet capable approach to extract information from web pages is to use the UNIX grep command or regular expression-matching facilities of programming languages (for instance Perl or Python), in order to find text matching a specified pattern.

HTTP programming[edit]

Static and dynamic web pages can be retrieved by posting HTTP requests to the remote web server using socket programming.

HTML parsing[edit]

Many websites have large collections of pages generated dynamically from an underlying structured source like a database. Data of the same category are typically encoded into similar pages by a common script or template. In data mining, a program that detects such templates in a particular information source, extracts its content, and translates it into a relational form, is called a wrapper. Wrapper generation algorithms assume that input pages of a wrapper induction system conform to a common template and that they can be easily identified in terms of a URL common scheme.[4] Moreover, some semi-structured data query languages, such as XQuery and the HTQL, can be used to parse HTML pages and to retrieve and transform page content.

DOM parsing[edit]
Further information: Document Object Model

By using a program such as Selenium or Playwright, developers can control a web browser such as Chrome or Firefox wherein they can load, navigate, and retrieve data from websites. This method can be especially useful for scraping data from dynamic sites since a web browser will fully load each page. Once an entire page is loaded, you can access and parse the DOM using an expression language such as XPath.

Vertical aggregation[edit]

There are several companies that have developed vertical specific harvesting platforms. These platforms create and monitor a multitude of "bots" for specific verticals with no "man in the loop" (no direct human involvement), and no work related to a specific target site. The preparation involves establishing the knowledge base for the entire vertical and then the platform creates the bots automatically. The platform's robustness is measured by the quality of the information it retrieves (usually number of fields) and its scalability (how quick it can scale up to hundreds or thousands of sites). This scalability is mostly used to target the Long Tail of sites that common aggregators find complicated or too labor-intensive to harvest content from.

Semantic annotation recognizing[edit]

The pages being scraped may embrace metadata or semantic markups and annotations, which can be used to locate specific data snippets. If the annotations are embedded in the pages, as Microformat does, this technique can be viewed as a special case of DOM parsing. In another case, the annotations, organized into a semantic layer,[5] are stored and managed separately from the web pages, so the scrapers can retrieve data schema and instructions from this layer before scraping the pages.

Computer vision web-page analysis[edit]

There are efforts using machine learning and computer vision that attempt to identify and extract information from web pages by interpreting pages visually as a human being might.[6]

Legal issues[edit]
	
The examples and perspective in this section deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this section, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new section, as appropriate. (October 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

The legality of web scraping varies across the world. In general, web scraping may be against the terms of service of some websites, but the enforceability of these terms is unclear.[7]

United States[edit]

In the United States, website owners can use three major legal claims to prevent undesired web scraping: (1) copyright infringement (compilation), (2) violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act ("CFAA"), and (3) trespass to chattel.[8] However, the effectiveness of these claims relies upon meeting various criteria, and the case law is still evolving. For example, with regard to copyright, while outright duplication of original expression will in many cases be illegal, in the United States the courts ruled in Feist Publications v. Rural Telephone Service that duplication of facts is allowable.

U.S. courts have acknowledged that users of "scrapers" or "robots" may be held liable for committing trespass to chattels,[9][10] which involves a computer system itself being considered personal property upon which the user of a scraper is trespassing. The best known of these cases, eBay v. Bidder's Edge, resulted in an injunction ordering Bidder's Edge to stop accessing, collecting, and indexing auctions from the eBay web site. This case involved automatic placing of bids, known as auction sniping. However, in order to succeed on a claim of trespass to chattels, the plaintiff must demonstrate that the defendant intentionally and without authorization interfered with the plaintiff's possessory interest in the computer system and that the defendant's unauthorized use caused damage to the plaintiff. Not all cases of web spidering brought before the courts have been considered trespass to chattels.[11]

One of the first major tests of screen scraping involved American Airlines (AA), and a firm called FareChase.[12] AA successfully obtained an injunction from a Texas trial court, stopping FareChase from selling software that enables users to compare online fares if the software also searches AA's website. The airline argued that FareChase's websearch software trespassed on AA's servers when it collected the publicly available data. FareChase filed an appeal in March 2003. By June, FareChase and AA agreed to settle and the appeal was dropped.[13]

Southwest Airlines has also challenged screen-scraping practices, and has involved both FareChase and another firm, Outtask, in a legal claim. Southwest Airlines charged that the screen-scraping is Illegal since it is an example of "Computer Fraud and Abuse" and has led to "Damage and Loss" and "Unauthorized Access" of Southwest's site. It also constitutes "Interference with Business Relations", "Trespass", and "Harmful Access by Computer". They also claimed that screen-scraping constitutes what is legally known as "Misappropriation and Unjust Enrichment", as well as being a breach of the web site's user agreement. Outtask denied all these claims, claiming that the prevailing law, in this case, should be US Copyright law and that under copyright, the pieces of information being scraped would not be subject to copyright protection. Although the cases were never resolved in the Supreme Court of the United States, FareChase was eventually shuttered by parent company Yahoo!, and Outtask was purchased by travel expense company Concur.[14] In 2012, a startup called 3Taps scraped classified housing ads from Craigslist. Craigslist sent 3Taps a cease-and-desist letter and blocked their IP addresses and later sued, in Craigslist v. 3Taps. The court held that the cease-and-desist letter and IP blocking was sufficient for Craigslist to properly claim that 3Taps had violated the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA).

Although these are early scraping decisions, and the theories of liability are not uniform, it is difficult to ignore a pattern emerging that the courts are prepared to protect proprietary content on commercial sites from uses which are undesirable to the owners of such sites. However, the degree of protection for such content is not settled and will depend on the type of access made by the scraper, the amount of information accessed and copied, the degree to which the access adversely affects the site owner's system and the types and manner of prohibitions on such conduct.[15]

While the law in this area becomes more settled, entities contemplating using scraping programs to access a public web site should also consider whether such action is authorized by reviewing the terms of use and other terms or notices posted on or made available through the site. In Cvent Inc. v. Eventbrite Inc. (2010), the United States district court for the eastern district of Virginia, ruled that the terms of use should be brought to the users' attention in order for a browsewrap contract or license to be enforceable.[16] In a 2014 case, filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,[17] e-commerce site QVC objected to the Pinterest-like shopping aggregator Resultly's 'scraping of QVC's site for real-time pricing data. QVC alleges that Resultly "excessively crawled" QVC's retail site (allegedly sending 200-300 search requests to QVC's website per minute, sometimes to up to 36,000 requests per minute) which caused QVC's site to crash for two days, resulting in lost sales for QVC.[18] QVC's complaint alleges that the defendant disguised its web crawler to mask its source IP address and thus prevented QVC from quickly repairing the problem. This is a particularly interesting scraping case because QVC is seeking damages for the unavailability of their website, which QVC claims was caused by Resultly.

In the plaintiff's web site during the period of this trial, the terms of use link are displayed among all the links of the site, at the bottom of the page as most sites on the internet. This ruling contradicts the Irish ruling described below. The court also rejected the plaintiff's argument that the browse-wrap restrictions were enforceable in view of Virginia's adoption of the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act (UCITA)—a uniform law that many believed was in favor on common browse-wrap contracting practices.[19]

In Facebook, Inc. v. Power Ventures, Inc., a district court ruled in 2012 that Power Ventures could not scrape Facebook pages on behalf of a Facebook user. The case is on appeal, and the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed a brief in 2015 asking that it be overturned.[20][21] In Associated Press v. Meltwater U.S. Holdings, Inc., a court in the US held Meltwater liable for scraping and republishing news information from the Associated Press, but a court in the United Kingdom held in favor of Meltwater.

The Ninth Circuit ruled in 2019 that web scraping did not violate the CFAA in hiQ Labs v. LinkedIn. The case was appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which returned the case to the Ninth Circuit to reconsider the case in light of the 2021 Supreme Court decision in Van Buren v. United States which narrowed the applicability of the CFAA.[22] On this review, the Ninth Circuit upheld their prior decision.[23]

Internet Archive collects and distributes a significant number of publicly available web pages without being considered to be in violation of copyright laws.[citation needed]

European Union[edit]

In February 2006, the Danish Maritime and Commercial Court (Copenhagen) ruled that systematic crawling, indexing, and deep linking by portal site ofir.dk of real estate site Home.dk does not conflict with Danish law or the database directive of the European Union.[24]

Ethical data scraping supports offmarket sourcing in business but must comply with GDPR to avoid privacy violations in automated data collection.[25]

In a February 2010 case complicated by matters of jurisdiction, Ireland's High Court delivered a verdict that illustrates the inchoate state of developing case law. In the case of Ryanair Ltd v Billigfluege.de GmbH, Ireland's High Court ruled Ryanair's "click-wrap" agreement to be legally binding. In contrast to the findings of the United States District Court Eastern District of Virginia and those of the Danish Maritime and Commercial Court, Justice Michael Hanna ruled that the hyperlink to Ryanair's terms and conditions was plainly visible, and that placing the onus on the user to agree to terms and conditions in order to gain access to online services is sufficient to comprise a contractual relationship.[26] The decision is under appeal in Ireland's Supreme Court.[27]

On April 30, 2020, the French Data Protection Authority (CNIL) released new guidelines on web scraping.[28] The CNIL guidelines made it clear that publicly available data is still personal data and cannot be repurposed without the knowledge of the person to whom that data belongs.[29]

Australia[edit]

In Australia, the Spam Act 2003 outlaws some forms of web harvesting, although this only applies to email addresses.[30][31]

India[edit]

Leaving a few cases dealing with IPR infringement, Indian courts have not expressly ruled on the legality of web scraping. However, since all common forms of electronic contracts are enforceable in India, violating the terms of use prohibiting data scraping will be a violation of the contract law. It will also violate the Information Technology Act, 2000, which penalizes unauthorized access to a computer resource or extracting data from a computer resource.

Methods to prevent web scraping[edit]

The administrator of a website can use various measures to stop or slow a bot. Some techniques include:

Blocking an IP address either manually or based on criteria such as geolocation and DNSRBL. This will also block all browsing from that address.
Disabling any web service API that the website's system might expose.
Bots sometimes declare who they are (using user agent strings) and can be blocked on that basis using robots.txt; 'googlebot' is an example. Other bots make no distinction between themselves and a human using a browser.
Bots can be blocked by monitoring excess traffic.
Bots can sometimes be blocked with tools to verify that it is a real person accessing the site, like a CAPTCHA. Bots are sometimes coded to explicitly break specific CAPTCHA patterns or may employ third-party services that utilize human labor to read and respond in real-time to CAPTCHA challenges. They can be triggered because the bot


---

## Data scraping - Wikipedia
- URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_scraping
- 시각: 2026-05-05T01:04:08

Jump to content
Main menu
Search
Donate
Create account
Log in
Contents hide
(Top)
Description
Technical variants
Toggle Technical variants subsection
Screen scraping
Web scraping
Report mining
See also
References
Further reading
Data scraping
16 languages
Article
Talk
Read
Edit
View history
Tools
Appearance hide
Text
Small
Standard
Large
Width
Standard
Wide
Color
Automatic
Light
Dark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
	
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Data scraping" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this message)

Data scraping is a technique where a computer program extracts data from human-readable output coming from another program.

Description[edit]

Normally, data transfer between programs is accomplished using data structures suited for automated processing by computers, not people. Such interchange formats and protocols are typically rigidly structured, well-documented, easily parsed, and minimize ambiguity. Very often, these transmissions are not human-readable at all.

Thus, the key element that distinguishes data scraping from regular parsing is that the data being consumed is intended for display to an end-user, rather than as an input to another program. It is therefore usually neither documented nor structured for convenient parsing. Data scraping often involves ignoring binary data (usually images or multimedia data), display formatting, redundant labels, superfluous commentary, and other information which is either irrelevant or hinders automated processing.

Data scraping is most often done either to interface to a legacy system, which has no other mechanism which is compatible with current hardware, or to interface to a third-party system which does not provide a more convenient API. In the second case, the operator of the third-party system will often see screen scraping as unwanted, due to reasons such as increased system load, the loss of advertisement revenue, or the loss of control of the information content.

Data scraping is generally considered an ad hoc, inelegant technique, often used only as a "last resort" when no other mechanism for data interchange is available. Aside from the higher programming and processing overhead, output displays intended for human consumption often change structure frequently. Humans can cope with this easily, but a computer program will fail. Depending on the quality and the extent of error handling logic present in the computer, this failure can result in error messages, corrupted output or even program crashes.

However, setting up a data scraping pipeline nowadays is straightforward, requiring minimal programming effort to meet practical needs (especially in biomedical data integration).[1]

Technical variants[edit]
Screen scraping[edit]
A screen fragment and a screen-scraping interface (blue box with red arrow) to customize data capture process.

Although the use of physical "dumb terminal" IBM 3270s is slowly diminishing, as more and more mainframe applications acquire Web interfaces, some Web applications merely continue to use the technique of screen scraping to capture old screens and transfer the data to modern front-ends.[2]

Screen scraping is normally associated with the programmatic collection of visual data from a source, instead of parsing data as in web scraping. Originally, screen scraping referred to the practice of reading text data from a computer display terminal's screen. This was generally done by reading the terminal's memory through its auxiliary port, or by connecting the terminal output port of one computer system to an input port on another. The term screen scraping is also commonly used to refer to the bidirectional exchange of data. This could be the simple cases where the controlling program navigates through the user interface, or more complex scenarios where the controlling program is entering data into an interface meant to be used by a human.

As a concrete example of a classic screen scraper, consider a hypothetical legacy system dating from the 1960s—the dawn of computerized data processing. Computer to user interfaces from that era were often simply text-based dumb terminals which were not much more than virtual teleprinters (such systems are still in use today, for various reasons). The desire to interface such a system to more modern systems is common. A robust solution will often require things no longer available, such as source code, system documentation, APIs, or programmers with experience in a 50-year-old computer system. In such cases, the only feasible solution may be to write a screen scraper that "pretends" to be a user at a terminal. The screen scraper might connect to the legacy system via Telnet, emulate the keystrokes needed to navigate the old user interface, process the resulting display output, extract the desired data, and pass it on to the modern system. A sophisticated and resilient implementation of this kind, built on a platform providing the governance and control required by a major enterprise—e.g. change control, security, user management, data protection, operational audit, load balancing, and queue management, etc.—could be said to be an example of robotic process automation software, called RPA or RPAAI for self-guided RPA 2.0 based on artificial intelligence.

In the 1980s, financial data providers such as Reuters, Telerate, and Quotron displayed data in 24×80 format intended for a human reader. Users of this data, particularly investment banks, wrote applications to capture and convert this character data as numeric data for inclusion into calculations for trading decisions without re-keying the data. The common term for this practice, especially in the United Kingdom, was page shredding, since the results could be imagined to have passed through a paper shredder. Internally Reuters used the term 'logicized' for this conversion process, running a sophisticated computer system on VAX/VMS called the Logicizer.[3]

More modern screen scraping techniques include capturing the bitmap data from the screen and running it through an OCR engine, or for some specialised automated testing systems, matching the screen's bitmap data against expected results.[4] This can be combined in the case of GUI applications, with querying the graphical controls by programmatically obtaining references to their underlying programming objects. A sequence of screens is automatically captured and converted into a database.

Another modern adaptation to these techniques is to use, instead of a sequence of screens as input, a set of images or PDF files, so there are some overlaps with generic "document scraping" and report mining techniques.

There are many tools that can be used for screen scraping.[5]

Web scraping[edit]
Main article: Web scraping

Web pages are built using text-based mark-up languages (HTML and XHTML), and frequently contain a wealth of useful data in text form. However, most web pages are designed for human end-users and not for ease of automated use. Because of this, tool kits that scrape web content were created. A web scraper is an API or tool to extract data from a website.[6] Companies like Amazon AWS and Google provide web scraping tools, services, and public data available free of cost to end-users. Newer forms of web scraping involve listening to data feeds from web servers. For example, JSON is commonly used as a transport storage mechanism between the client and the web server.[7] A web scraper uses a website's URL to extract data, and stores this data for subsequent analysis. This method of web scraping enables the extraction of data in an efficient and accurate manner.[8]

Recently, companies have developed web scraping systems that rely on using techniques in DOM parsing, computer vision and natural language processing to simulate the human processing that occurs when viewing a webpage to automatically extract useful information.[9][10]

Large websites usually use defensive algorithms to protect their data from web scrapers and to limit the number of requests an IP or IP network may send. This has caused an ongoing battle between website developers and scraping developers.[11]

Report mining[edit]

Report mining is the extraction of data from human-readable computer reports. Conventional data extraction requires a connection to a working source system, suitable connectivity standards or an API, and usually complex querying. By using the source system's standard reporting options, and directing the output to a spool file instead of to a printer, static reports can be generated suitable for offline analysis via report mining.[12] This approach can avoid intensive CPU usage during business hours, can minimise end-user licence costs for ERP customers, and can offer very rapid prototyping and development of custom reports. Whereas data scraping and web scraping involve interacting with dynamic output, report mining involves extracting data from files in a human-readable format, such as HTML, PDF, or text. These can be easily generated from almost any system by intercepting the data feed to a printer. This approach can provide a quick and simple route to obtaining data without the need to program an API to the source system.

Legal and Ethical Considerations

The legality and ethics of data scraping are often argued. Scraping publicly accessible data is generally legal, however scraping in a manner that infringes a website's terms of service, breaches security measures, or invades user privacy can lead to legal action. Moreover, some websites particularly prohibit data scraping in their robots.

See also[edit]
Comparison of feed aggregators
Data cleansing
Data munging
Importer (computing)
Information extraction
Mashup (web application hybrid)
Metadata
Open data
Search engine scraping
References[edit]
^ Glez-Peña, Daniel (April 30, 2013). "Web scraping technologies in an API world". Briefings in Bioinformatics. 15 (5): 788–797. doi:10.1093/bib/bbt026. hdl:1822/32460. PMID 23632294.
^ "Back in the 1990s.. 2002 ... 2016 ... still, according to Chase Bank, a major issue. Ron Lieber (May 7, 2016). "Jamie Dimon Wants to Protect You From Innovative Start-Ups". The New York Times.
^ Contributors Fret About Reuters' Plan To Switch From Monitor Network To IDN, FX Week, 02 Nov 1990
^ Yeh, Tom (2009). "Sikuli: Using GUI Screenshots for Search and Automation" (PDF). UIST. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2010-02-14. Retrieved 2015-02-16.
^ "What is Screen Scraping". June 17, 2019.
^ Thapelo, Tsaone Swaabow; Namoshe, Molaletsa; Matsebe, Oduetse; Motshegwa, Tshiamo; Bopape, Mary-Jane Morongwa (2021-07-28). "SASSCAL WebSAPI: A Web Scraping Application Programming Interface to Support Access to SASSCAL's Weather Data". Data Science Journal. 20 24. doi:10.5334/dsj-2021-024. ISSN 1683-1470. S2CID 237719804.
^ "Working with JSON". MDN Web Docs. Mozilla. Retrieved 16 January 2026.
^ Singrodia, Vidhi; Mitra, Anirban; Paul, Subrata (2019-01-23). "A Review on Web Scrapping and its Applications". 2019 International Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics (ICCCI). IEEE. pp. 1–6. doi:10.1109/ICCCI.2019.8821809. ISBN 978-1-5386-8260-9.
^ Metz, Rachel (June 1, 2012). "A Startup Hopes to Help Computers Understand Web Pages". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 1 December 2014.
^ VanHemert, Kyle (Mar 4, 2014). "This Simple Data-Scraping Tool Could Change How Apps Are Made". WIRED. Archived from the original on 11 May 2015. Retrieved 8 May 2015.
^ ""Unusual traffic from your computer network"". Google Search Help. Retrieved 2017-04-04.
^ Scott Steinacher, "Data Pump transforms host data", InfoWorld, 30 August 1999, p55
Further reading[edit]
Hemenway, Kevin and Calishain, Tara. Spidering Hacks. Cambridge, Massachusetts: O'Reilly, 2003. ISBN 0-596-00577-6.
show
vte
Data


show
vte
Information security


Category: Data processing
This page was last edited on 17 February 2026, at 10:23 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Legal & safety contacts
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
